# comp130-software-engineering

## How can Continuous Integration be used to decrease development times in games companies?

Software development is usually a long-term endeavour, and projects often run over deadlines and therefore exceed their budgets as well. There are many factors that contribute to long development cycles, particularly bugs that arise during coding either from unforeseen issues or from poorly maintained codebases. This can be particularly prevalent in the games industry, as games are complex pieces of software that often combine many separate and vastly different functionalities. Because of the interdependent nature of games – functionality such as attacking and collision detection may be used in many different areas of the game – it is easy for small errors or substandard code to snowball into larger, development-halting issues.   

In this paper, I will be examining the possible usages of Continuous Integration in the games industry. I will provide a brief overview of continuous integration and its benefits in a software development company, drawing on academic reports and analyses of Continuous Integration (and its prerequisite, Test Driven Development) to support my claims. I will also attempt to build on these sources to make insights into the productivity benefits provided by Continuous Integration.  

However, the primary focus of this paper will be the viability of Continuous Integration in game development and the ways in which it can benefit a development team, particularly in regard to reducing bugs and badly maintained areas of code. In order to draw more realistic conclusions, I will also be looking at the drawbacks of Continuous Integration, and the challenges that may be faced when transferring the practice to a game development environment. This area in particularly will likely require further research into Test Driven Development in the games industry, as Continuous Integration relies heavily upon TTD, while games, by their nature, can be difficult to write tests for. In addition, I will touch upon the initial setup costs of Continuous integration, such as the need to write tests before beginning actual programming which takes both time and good planning in terms of the software architecture and necessary functionality.   

I will be concluding with a short verdict on the appropriateness of Continuous Integration in the games industry and its probably effectiveness at reducing development times, based on both academic sources and my personal experience with agile game development so far. The reader should come away from this paper with an understanding of the potential benefits of CI, but also be aware of the difficulties and costs of implementing it.


